# About the IoES

The mission of the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability \(IoES\) is to advance cross-disciplinary research, teaching, and public service on environmental matters of critical importance. The environment is defined broadly to include the interrelated issues of global climate change, loss of biological diversity, and threats to human health and well-being from the use and misuse of natural resources. We apply the tools of scientific and policy analysis, as well as moral and aesthetic values, to our endeavors.

The environment is a crucial component of sustainability, which is defined as the simultaneous consideration of environmental, economic, and social concerns. Los Angeles itself is a vital asset to this mission. As an international mega-city located in one of the world’s most biologically diverse regions, Los Angeles is a magnet for scholars from around the world who are confronting similar issues of pollution, access to potable water, demand for energy, fragmentation of habitat, and the need to restore ecological function to sprawling urban settlements in a manner that supports economic growth and that is socially just and equitable.

IoES offers creative, multidisciplinary academic programs and courses that address the full complexity of current environmental problems and sustainable solutions. The bachelor of science degree in environmental science is a dual-component degree program for students seeking a challenging and invigorating science curriculum. The first component, the Environmental Science major, provides students with disciplinary breadth in several areas important to environmental science. The second component, a minor or concentration in one of seven defined environmental science areas, provides students with focused disciplinary depth in an area of their choosing.

Unlike a department that focuses on a specific field of inquiry, IoES draws together faculty experts from across the campus. There are currently over 100 faculty affiliated with Institute, representing more than 25 departments. Through our eight research centers and our local, national, and international programs, we employ innovative, cross-disciplinary approaches to address critical environmental and sustainability challenges.

IoES is committed to facilitating student participation in solving real-world sustainability problems. Drawing on the dynamism of the world’s most diverse megacity and our top-tier public university, we take students of all cultures and income levels beyond campus borders to partner with leading government, non-profit, and business entities to develop cutting-edge environmental solutions.

Today’s environmental challenges are too big to leave any idea unexplored. They are too pressing to exclude provocative or even unpopular ideas. For these reasons, IoES sponsors events that stimulate public dialogue on topics including nuclear energy, genetically modified organisms and the future of cars and transportation.

We thrive on the energy, optimism and impatience of our students and faculty. We envision a future that is beautiful and prosperous in 2050—air, water, food, people and nature. As humanity urbanizes, the story of how we save the planet will be written by cities like Los Angeles, by multicultural universities like UCLA, and by innovators who break down silos of disciplinary scholarship. Students at IoES, you, are part of that story.

