# Off Campus

The City of Los Angeles is home to an almost dizzying array of environmental organizations and agencies--non-governmental organizations \(NGOs\) like Heal the Bay, the Natural Resources Defense Council \(NRDC\), Center for Biological Diversity; local, state, and Federal agencies including the City of Los Angeles and City of Santa Monica’s Office of Sustainability, the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board, and National Park Service; as well as initiatives like the Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator \(LACI\) and private companies and consulting firms that all employ scientists, sustainability experts, and policy researchers. Below are some possible paths for getting involved with organizations beyond UCLA.

## Volunteer {#volunteer}

One of the best ways to gain invaluable experience while at the same time exploring areas of research or possible career paths that might interest you is through volunteering. A number of environmental non-profit organizations and government agencies, at the local, state, and federal level, provide opportunities for students to join in part-time roles to carry out work ranging from substantive research, to environmental restoration efforts, to assistance with educational and outreach initiatives. For more information on possible volunteer opportunities, or to connect with students and alumni that may have volunteered for organizations that interest you, please contact Noah Garrison \(ngarrison@ioes.ucla.edu\) or Royce Dieckmann \(rdieckmann@ioes.ucla.edu\).

## Internships {#internships}

Similar to volunteer opportunities, internships are valuable for students seeking experience in a specific field or type of organization, and can certainly be useful for networking purposes when seeking employment upon graduation. The goal of any internship is that the student be provided with a learning opportunity about the type of work the organization does and ideally will be involved in many aspects of the positions available at the organization. NGOs, government agencies, public utilities, private companies and corporations - students can intern almost anywhere. There are two main types of internships - paid or unpaid - and a different set of regulations that cover them.

Paid internships are the most desirable for obvious reasons. Students are employed on a temporary basis and paid for the work that they do while also learning the ropes of the organization. If you are fortunate enough to land a paid internship, there is no requirement that you must also earn college credit \(although you still can if you so desire\).

Unpaid internships are again subdivided due to California labor laws for the purposes of the logistics you may encounter. If you intern at a for-profit organization, you will need to earn college credit for the internship. We make that easy with our Environment 195 Internship course, and there are other ways to also earn credit for an internship at UCLA, detailed below. If you intern at a non-profit or government agency, it is not strictly speaking required that you earn credit, although many such organizations prefer that you do.

Most UCLA departments offer a course that can provide internship credit, usually 2 or 4 units depending on how many hours per week a student works at the internship. There is also an office on campus, called the Center for Community Learning, that will help arrange the course credit and manage the student’s experience, if that is desired.

For internships with an environmental or sustainability aspect we recommend that students enroll through our **Environment 195 Internship course** for credit. We will assist you in finding a faculty member to oversee the internship course and assist you with enrolling. However, some faculty may prefer that students enroll in the course through the faculty member’s home department. In these cases the process of filling out the contract is the same but the completed contract will be taken to that department’s SAO for approval and enrollment.

Summer internships can create a small complication. During the academic year \(fall/winter/spring\), because fees are on a flat basis, there is no additional charge for enrolling in an internship course. However, many students find summer internships. In these cases, the per-unit summer fee basis is used to charge the student for the internship course. This is a University policy, and one that the department is not fond of. In these cases, sometimes the employer might cover the fee, but often not. If you find that this expense creates difficulty for you, please consult with Royce Dieckmann as there is sometimes a loophole that we can use that might save you considerable expense.

**How to find an internship**

Internship in the environmental sector opportunities come up frequently and will be posted to the IoES Undergraduate message board through the [IoES Undergraduate Advising](https://piazza.com/ucla/other/ioesundergraduateadvising) board hosted by Piazza. Associated departments, such as your minor/concentration department, will also send out notices about internship opportunities. In addition, opportunities are often posted on [BruinView](https://secure.career.ucla.edu/BruinViewLogin/Login.aspx). However, the best way to find an internship in line with your interests and goals is to identify organizations for whom you would like to work, research their opportunities, and send a resume and statement of interest to their HR department or other appropriate contact. Also, many IoES faculty and staff have connections to various groups and agencies, so ask us. We may be be able to help introduce you.

